Arm Balance Poses
Arm balance asanas in yoga can be challenging, but also a very rewarding part of any yoga practice. They are beneficial as strength builders, they promote great circulation and demand ultimate concentration of the mind.

Balancing Yoga Poses
The grounding of the feet, distribution of the body weight, learning to breathe soft and deep are all important aspects of building a strong foundation for a typical balance pose. These strengthen the stabilizer muscles thus helps your body to avoid falling and knocking things over. These can also help a lot in removing stress and anxiety.

Standing Yoga Poses
Standing poses build strength and stability. The awareness is on physical and mental balance. To stand erect, the feet must be firmly planted on the ground, with the spine stretching upward and the head lifted. These foundation poses provide entry into standing on one leg.

Seated Yoga Poses
Seated positions calm the mind and encourage concentration. These are the best postures for practicing breathing techniques, meditation and stillness. When combined with twists or stretches, these poses release muscular knots, improving the flow of energy in the body.

Forward Bend Yoga Poses
Forward bends, also called forward folds, are yoga postures where you hinge forward at your hips. There are many forward folds, both standing and seated, that are commonly practiced in various forms across all styles of yoga. While backbends open the frontside of your body, forward bends open the backside and generally create length throughout. Physically, this improves posture and helps you stand taller.

Twist Yoga Poses
Twists rotate the spine and stretch the muscles of the back. This helps to restore and retain the spine’s natural range of motion. If we don’t employ our natural range of motion we run the risk of our joints hardening and fusing. The surrounding supportive soft tissue can also become short and dysfunctional. By extending the muscles to their full length regularly with twists once or twice a day we can help to prevent this.

Backbend Yoga Poses
Our spines are an incredible combination of strength and flexibility. Strong bones and large muscles give us structure and protect sensitive nerves, while flexible ligaments and tendons allow the spine to move in all different planes. With regular backbends we can help to protect this wonderful balance by increasing mobility while strengthening the supporting muscles around the skeleton.

Reclining Yoga Poses
Reclining poses provide safe ways for working abdominal and leg muscles. The spine and back are supported by the ground, helping to prevent strain and injury. The poses are typically at the beginners level and the practice reaps similar benefits to doing the poses standing.

Inversion Yoga Poses
Any pose in which your heart is higher from the ground than your head is considered an inversion asana. Yoga inversion is believed to release tension, increase circulation and energy levels, and strengthen muscles. It’s also thought to promote emotional growth, calm the mind and spirit, guide energy toward the heart, and help you become more connected with the earth.

Core Yoga Poses
In yoga, core stability is key for proper alignment and balance in asana practice. Engage in your abdominal muscles with core yoga poses to help build a strong and stable core. Doing so will help prevent injury, speed rehabilitation and improve performance in all types of sports.